NodeSummit, San Francisco, CA, Thu 27 Jul 2017

Using Node.js to Enable Enterprise Innovation

Ryan Juang, Engineering Manager, Conde Nast
@papajuans

Daniel Khan, Technology Lead, Dynatrace
@dkhan

Trevor Livingston, Principal Architect, HomeAway
@tlivings

Anurag Sinha, Member of Technical Staff, PayPal

Folks really working at scale.
Using Node at enterprise level for years.
Enterprise software creates positive business outcomes without negative business impact.
Hesitance to introduce risk.
Conde chose Node to rebuild platform and engineering culture.
Conde is all out on Node.
Dynatrace started seeing Node more and more in enterprises.
Wrote Node agents from scratch.
Now using Node for internal projects.
HomeAway needed to do more, quickly.
Node was an obvious choice.
Paypal, huge Java monolith.
Difficult due to language and ecosystem complexity.
Rewrote/rearchitected in Node.
One of most heavily trafficked apps at PayPal.
Payment checkout.
Node has been a great ride.
Biggest impact is boost in productivity.
Same language on front-end and back-end.
There were silos at PayPal, married to particular technologies.
JavaScript enabled all these people to come together.
Can now build much faster.
JavaSript faster and easier to adopt.
People bring the open source culture.
Do one thing and do it well.
Begin to contribute back.
Small teams can contribute needed module.
First Node is used on the edge.
Then flows into the whole organization.
Faster deployment, CI/CD.
Technology shift caused by Node.
Open source mindset.
Satisfying curiosity.
Same language, same runtime.
Open code, see what it does.
Challenges adopting Node?
Greenfielding from scratch.
Event loop, async, learning curve.
Everything is dynamic, implications for monitoring.
Challenge to keep up and not break anything.
HomeAway, migrating to AWS, disruptive, ongoing.
Throw another platform in mix.
How do you get Java teams educated on Node way?
Hiring, difficult to find full stack engineers in Austin.
Mid-tier Node, how do we scale certain things?
Java very mature in this space.
How do we optimize Node mid-tier?
Still on that journey.
Applied Node experience from UX to mid-tier.
Cultural challenge, understanding asynchrony.
Asynchronize certain flows.
It was inspirational, and performance gains.
Great thing about Node is cultural.
Node as catalyst for change.
Node as proxy for legacy stacks.
Banks, don't connect mobile app to mainframe.
Node offers easy API to accomplish that.
Two-sided marketplace, like HomeAway.
Interaction through web.
Need to measure how efficiently bringing people in.
Node, speed to make adjustments.
Quickly respond to two-sided marketplace.
Fintech, mobile UX.
Strength of Node is culture of developers inside the company.

